

This a model from the article:  
**Regulation of Ca2+ and electrical alternans in cardiac myocytes: role of CAMKII and repolarizing currents.**   
Livshitz LM, Rudy Y. _Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol._ 2007
Jun;292(6):H2854-66. [17277017](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17277017) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Alternans of cardiac repolarization is associated with arrhythmias and sudden
death. At the cellular level, alternans involves beat-to-beat oscillation of
the action potential (AP) and possibly Ca(2+) transient (CaT). Because of
experimental difficulty in independently controlling the Ca(2+) and electrical
subsystems, mathematical modeling provides additional insights into mechanisms
and causality. Pacing protocols were conducted in a canine ventricular myocyte
model with the following results: 1) CaT alternans results from refractoriness
of the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) release system; alternation of the L-type
calcium current has a negligible effect; 2) CaT-AP coupling during late AP
occurs through the sodium-calcium exchanger and underlies AP duration (APD)
alternans; 3) increased Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)
activity extends the range of CaT and APD alternans to slower frequencies and
increases alternans magnitude; its decrease suppresses CaT and APD alternans,
exerting an antiarrhythmic effect; and 4) increase of the rapid delayed
rectifier current (I(Kr)) also suppresses APD alternans but without
suppressing CaT alternans. Thus CaMKII inhibition eliminates APD alternans by
eliminating its cause (CaT alternans) while I(Kr) enhancement does so by
weakening CaT-APD coupling. The simulations identify combined CaMKII
inhibition and I(Kr) enhancement as a possible antiarrhythmic intervention.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Livshitz LM, Rudy Y. (2007) - version01**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/livshitz_rudy_2007_version01)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Noble, Penny,**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

